IT645 Lab Assignment 2 
To understand and apply essential SEO techniques including on-page SEO with structured 
data (JSON-LD), keyword research using SemRush tool, generating XML and HTML 
sitemaps, and configuring robots.txt for search engine crawling. You are given a sample 
HTML page as the base content for this assignment. You will perform SEO improvements on 
this page. 
A.​ On-page SEO with structured data using JSON-LD 
i.​ Identify the appropriate Schema.org type for the given content (hint: "LocalBusiness" 
→ "BookStore"). 
ii.​ Create a JSON-LD script containing relevant business details from the page (name, 
description, address, contact, opening hours, etc.). 
iii.​ Insert the JSON-LD script inside the <head> section of index.html. 
iv.​ Validate the structured data using following validator tools (insert the entire html file 
along with the script element): 
https://validator.schema.org/ or https://redirection.io/tools/structured-data/test 
B.​ Keyword Research using SemRush Tool 
i.​ Explore the tool: Read about the Competitive Research and Keyword research 
ii.​ Use the Keyword Magic Tool (available in free version) 
a.​ Search for terms related to “book store ” and note down: 
▪​
Top 10 keyword suggestions 
▪​
Their search volume 
▪​
Keyword difficulty (KD) score 
▪​
Intent 
iii.​ Use Keyword Gap Tool to compare your keyword profile with competitors and 
include them on your page 
a.​ Add competitor store’s website domains. 
b.​ Analyze their: 
▪​
Top organic keywords 
▪​
Opportunities (weak, missed, untapped keywords) 
iv.​ Create a table listing chosen keywords, volume, intent and KD. 
v.​ Explain the strategy behind choosing specific keywords you would target and why. 
C.​ Generate XML Sitemap  
i.​ for any website of your choice using the website https://www.xml-sitemaps.com/.  
ii.​ For the Bookstore website, create: 

--- PAGE ---
a.​ XML Sitemap (sitemap.xml) manually 
b.​ HTML Sitemap (sitemap.html) 
iii.​ Ensure it includes: 
a.​ Home page (index.html) 
b.​ Menu page (can be dummy: menu.html) 
c.​ Contact page (contact.html) 
iv.​ Place sitemap.xml and sitemap.html in the root directory. 
v.​ Validate XML sitemap using:​
https://www.xml-sitemaps.com/validate-xml-sitemap.html 
D.​ Create robots.txt in the root directory. 
i.​ Include the xml sitemap in robots.txt  
ii.​ Allow search engines to crawl all pages except: 
a.​ Admin pages (/admin/) 
b.​ Test pages (/test/) 
E.​ Web page performance optimization 
iii.​ Create an HTML page with book images using flexbox layout. Add a video about the 
book collection.  
iv.​ Perform optimizations: Perform compression of images using online image 
compression tools such as compression.io, enable lazy loading of images and video.  
a.​ Run the optimized page through the Google PageSpeed Insights 
(pagespeed.web.dev) and Compare the core web vitals: LCP, INP and CLS 
before and after optimization.  
Submit: 
1.​ Updated index.html with JSON-LD structured data. 
2.​ Screenshots of validation results  
3.​ SemRush keyword research table and strategy. 
4.​ XML and HTML sitemap files. 
5.​ robots.txt file. 
6.​ Performance optimization report 
 
